---
layout: page
title: Protostellar Bowshocks in AFGL5142-MM1
img: /assets/img/projects/afgl5142/alma.jpg
importance: 6
related_publications: true
---

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/img/projects/afgl5142/alma.jpg" title="AFGL5142" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    ALMA image of AFGL5142. Image credit: ALMA (ESO/NAOJ/NRAO)
</div>

Massive star formation is a complex process which is not yet fully understood. Studies of massive star forming regions usually involve observations of outflows and jets in order to understand the feedback mechanisms acting against accretion. These phenomena can be observed using multi-epoch VLBI, revealing their kinematics at very high precision. However, this technique is under the assumption that masers co-propagate with the shock surfaces.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/img/projects/afgl5142/maser.jpeg" title="AFGL5142 Maser" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Water masers and their 3D velocities in AFGL5142 taken using VERA in 2015
</div>

AFGL5142 is a massive star forming region with multiple outflows on multiple scales, with the primary object, MM1 with a mass of $6.5\,\text{M}_{\odot}$ hosting rare double bowshocks observed using VERA in 2015 via water masers {% cite Burns2017 --file references %}. However, when the kinematics are extrapolated and compared with new observations, the masers do not move as far as expected. This suggests that the discrepencies may exist between the motions of the masers and the motions of the bowshocks, either due to relative motions of the shock and the maser cloudlets, supersonic turbulence, or on an extreme, the deceleration of the shock itself.

Nonetheless, this result underlines the importance of both short- and long-term monitoring of masers to understand the true kinematics of the bowshocks at different scales.

I worked on data analysis of the data involving parametric fitting, error calculations, and confidence intervals as well as data visualization.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/img/projects/afgl5142/bowshocks.jpg" title="AFGL5142 Bowshocks" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Evolution of protostellar bowshocks in AFGL5142-MM1.
</div>
